
                                 _Your_
                                  1952
                               STUDEBAKER
                                CHAMPION




                             OWNER’S GUIDE
                                  1952




                                CONTENTS


  Instruments and Controls                                             5
  Run-in Period                                                       14
  Operating the Car                                                   16
  Lubrication                                                         27
  If You Must Change a Tire                                           35
  Maintenance and Care of the Car                                     37
  Service and Adjustments                                             48
  Technical Reference Data                                            51
  Seasonal Services                                                   54
  Wiring Diagram                                                      55
  Index                                                               56


A word with you—

You no doubt have many reasons for your choice of this car. All of them,
we are sure, are good reasons. Accept our congratulations and thanks on
your purchase of a fine motor car.

Speaking of reasons, we have three for printing this book. First, to
tell you _what you have_ in your car. Second, to tell you _how to
operate it_. Third, to tell you what care it should receive to serve you
best.

For more technical information as to how your car or any of its parts
operates or how to make any of a multitude of adjustments or repairs, we
refer you to your Studebaker dealer. Studebaker owners operate their
cars with the assurance of a friendly, nation-wide service organization.
Dealers’ men are constantly informed by us of the latest advances in
technical procedures, tools, and equipment.

                                          The General Service Department
                                              THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION

    [Illustration: DEALER SERVICE POLICY FOR _Studebaker Owners_]




               BE SURE TO READ YOUR DEALER SERVICE POLICY


_With your new Studebaker you received a Dealer Service Policy from your
Studebaker dealer. Please read it carefully._

_Under its terms you, as the owner of a new Studebaker, are entitled to
receive from your dealer during the warranty period, two thorough
check-ups which are important to the efficient operation of your car.
These services will be performed gratis only by the dealer from whom you
purchased the car and advance arrangements should be made with him if
these services are to become due while you are touring or after a change
of residence._

_Any Studebaker dealer in the U. S. or Canada is authorized to replace,
without charge for material or labor, any parts found to be defective
under the terms of the Studebaker Factory Warranty._

_Always keep your Dealer Service Policy with the car during the warranty
period. It will be necessary to present the Policy in order to obtain
the parts replacement privileges under the Warranty from other than the
Studebaker dealer from whom you bought the car._

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

  GASOLINE
  AMMETER
  DIRECTIONAL SIGNAL INDICATOR
  ODOMETER
  DIRECTIONAL SIGNAL INDICATOR
  OIL PRESSURE
  HEAT INDICATOR
  HOOD CONTROL
  FOG LIGHT CONTROL
  OVERDRIVE CONTROL
  CLIMATIZER AND DEFROSTER CONTROL
  PARKING BRAKE CONTROL HANDLE
  MASTER LIGHT CONTROL
  IGNITION LOCK AND SWITCH




                        INSTRUMENTS AND CONTROLS


_The driver of a new car should become familiar with the functions of
the instruments and controls described below before operating the car.
Standard equipment varies to some extent between different models. The
illustration above includes both standard and extra equipment._


_Ignition Switch_ The ignition switch is operated by means of a key
which, when turned to the right, supplies current to the ignition system
and accessories. Turned to the left, the key completes the electrical
circuit to the gasoline gage, radio, and other accessories but not to
the ignition. _The ignition key should always be removed when you leave
the car._


_Starter Switch_ The starter is controlled by a button on the toeboard
located directly beneath the clutch pedal. By completely depressing the
clutch pedal, the electrical circuit through the starter switch is
completed. Do not operate starter when the engine is running.


_Ammeter_ When the engine is not running and any of the electrical
circuits are in use, the ammeter will register a discharge (-). With the
engine running at a reasonable speed, even though all electrical
circuits are in use, the ammeter will register a charge (+) until the
battery is completely charged, after which the needle should swing back
and remain around the zero mark. Any abnormal fluctuation of the ammeter
needle in either direction is a signal to the driver to have the
electrical system checked and serviced by his authorized Studebaker
dealer.

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

  HEADLIGHT BEAM CONTROL
  CLUTCH
  BRAKE
  STARTER BUTTON
  ACCELERATOR PEDAL


_Heat Indicator_ The temperature of the coolant in the engine cooling
system is shown by the electric heat indicator which, under normal
conditions, should register within the rectangular mark on the face of
the gage. In summer, and on hot, long drives this may normally be a
little higher.

If the gage registers an abrupt or continuous rise to the “H” mark, stop
the car immediately and investigate. Check the water level, fan belt,
hose connections, and look for water leaks. Continued use at this
temperature will cause serious damage and unnecessary expense.

The gage registers only when the ignition key is turned either to the
right or left.

Check the water level frequently.


_Gasoline Gage_ The gasoline gage registers when the ignition key is
turned either to the right or left. If you wish to know the quantity of
fuel in the tank when the engine is not running, turn the ignition key
to the left. It takes about 30 seconds for the gage to register after
the ignition key is turned.


_Oil Pressure Gage_ The oil pressure gage indicates the working pressure
of the oil as it circulates within the engine. Normally, the gage will
register between 20 and 40 pounds (1,4 and 2,8 kgs.) at 40 miles (64
km.) per hour. _This gage does not indicate the amount of oil in the
crankcase._

If this gage should fluctuate rapidly or drop to zero, STOP the car
immediately and check the cause. Continued operation of the car under
these conditions will probably cause serious damage.


_Locks and Keys_ Two sets of keys are furnished with the car. One key
operates the front door external locks and the ignition switch. The
other key operates locks on the package compartment door (except
Champion Custom) and the luggage compartment lid.

To prevent unauthorized persons from purchasing a duplicate ignition
key, the key number does not appear on the key or on the face of the
lock, but is stamped on a small metal tag supplied with the keys. The
compartment key number is stamped on the key or on the lock housing.
Both key numbers should be recorded on page 15 of this manual and
elsewhere among the owner’s permanent possessions, after which the metal
tag should be destroyed.

Duplicate keys may be ordered by key number from the nearest authorized
Studebaker dealer. If the key numbers are not known, the order must be
accompanied by the car serial number.

Front door lock controls are designed so that either front door, locked
from the inside, may be opened from the outside with the key. This is an
advantage in parking lots when close parking blocks one door.

If an inside front door handle is set to “lock” position with the door
open and the door is then closed, the lock releases; Studebaker front
doors must be key-locked in such circumstances. The key will always
unlock either of the front doors from the outside no matter whether it
has been locked from the inside with the door lock control or locked
from the outside with the key.

The next three paragraphs explain the operation of the door locks.

1. Front door inside handles, when pushed up from the normal position to
      lock the door from the inside, will spring back to the normal
      position although the lock will remain set.

2. The front doors are locked from the outside with the key. Turn the
      key to the stop clockwise on left front doors and counterclockwise
      on right front doors. Return the key to the vertical position to
      remove it from the lock. To unlock the front doors follow the same
      procedure except turn the key to the stop in the opposite
      direction to that used to lock the door.

3. To lock either rear door of sedans, simply move the inside door
      handle upward, whether the door is open or closed. The door will
      remain locked until the inside rear door handle is moved downward
      to the full open position.


_Hood Lock_ The hood lock safeguards your battery, carburetor, and other
under-the-hood equipment against theft and tampering as long as the car
doors are locked. The hood control (marked “H”) is located on the
driver’s side of the car just below the lower end of the instrument
panel. To unlock the hood, pull the control until the automatic hood
lock is released. To raise the hood, release the safety latch as
illustrated. As a safety measure, after raising the hood, remove the end
of the hood prop from its bracket and place it in the hole provided on
the underside of the hood at the front.

Care should always be taken in raising or lowering the hood. Never try
to force the hood lock or safety latch. This might affect adjustments
which would result in an improperly operating part.

Lower the hood firmly so that the automatic hood latch and the safety
latch are fastened securely.

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

  HOOD LOCK
  HOOD SAFETY LATCH
  PROP ROD
  HOOD LOCK PLATE
  HOOD LOCK CONTROL WIRE


_Light Control Switch_ A pull-and-turn type switch control is located on
the driver’s side of the lower instrument board to operate the
headlights, instrument lights, map light, tail lights, and parking
lights.


_Parking and Tail Lights_ Pull light switch control to the first
position for parking and tail lights.

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

  HEAD AND TAIL LIGHTS
  PARK AND TAIL LIGHTS
  OFF
  POSITIONS OF LIGHT CONTROL
    MAP LIGHT
      <TURN>
      M L I
      PULL
    INSTRUMENT LIGHT
      <TURN>
      M L I
      PULL


_Headlights and Tail Lights_ Pull the light switch control as far out as
possible (second position) to operate the headlights and tail lights.


_Headlight Beam Control Switch_ The foot-operated switch to the left of
the clutch pedal operates the headlight beam. Pressing down on the
switch will change the headlights from country to traffic beam, and vice
versa as traffic conditions require. When the country beam is in use the
red tell-tale light in the speedometer face will be lighted. Use the
traffic beam when approaching oncoming traffic and in city driving.


_Instrument and Map Lights_ The instruments are lighted with non-glare
_black light_. Turn the control clockwise for instrument lights.

In Deluxe and Regal models a map light can be lighted by turning the
control counterclockwise. On these models, this light will also operate
whenever either of the front doors is open.

_Dome Light_ The dome light in all models is operated by a switch just
to the rear of the right front door. On Deluxe and Regal models, this
light operates on 2-door bodies when either front door is open and on
4-door bodies when either rear door is open.

There is no dome light in convertible models.


_License Plate Light_ The light for the rear license plate is located in
the center of the luggage compartment handle. The light operates
whenever the headlights are turned on.


_Stop Lights_ They light whenever the brake pedal is depressed, making a
distinct red light shine to warn following vehicles.


_Luggage Compartment Light_ This light goes on when tail lights are
lighted and the luggage compartment lid is open. _The luggage
compartment light is available at slight extra cost._


_Package Compartment_ To open the package compartment door after
unlocking, turn the rotary knob to the right and open door. _An
automatic package compartment light is available at extra cost._


_Ash Receiver_ To remove the tray for cleaning, push down on the
retainer while pulling outward on the tray.

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

_Front Seat Adjustment_ The front seat is easily adjusted forward or
backward. Move the control lever forward at the driver’s side of the
seat (as shown in the illustration above). This unlocks the mechanism
and permits the seat to be shifted to the desired position.

In addition to this quickly adjusted shift, there are three basic
positions in which the seat can be bolted by your authorized Studebaker
dealer to accommodate the leg length of the owner. From any of these
basic positions, the front seat adjustment mechanism will give you the
full adjustment range.


_Clutch Pedal_ The clutch pedal disengages the clutch when depressed,
engages it when released. The clutch pedal, depressed to the floorboard,
also operates the starter button located directly under the pedal.


_Steering Post Gearshift_ The steering post gearshift is operated in the
conventional manner, and provides three forward speeds and one reverse
speed.


_Luggage Compartment Lid and Lock_ The luggage compartment lid is
controlled by a lock and handle contained in the rear emblem
incorporating the license plate light and rear license plate bracket.
The luggage compartment lock is operated with the same key which
operates the package compartment lock.

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

  1. UNLOCK WITH KEY
    (_Custom Models Only_)
  2. TURN LOCK RING TO RELEASE
  UNLOCK WITH KEY
  PRESS UP ON RELEASE PAD

To close, lock and remove the key. Lower lid firmly to be sure it has
latched. The tight rubber weatherseals have a spring action which will
tend to hold lid in a slightly raised position unless it is firmly
closed.


_Brake Controls_ Braking pressure is applied to all four wheels in
proportion to the amount of foot pressure applied to the brake pedal.

The parking brake lever operates independently of the hydraulic brake
system, applying brake pressure to the rear wheels only. To set the
parking brake, _depress brake pedal and pull back on parking brake
handle_. To release the parking brake, depress brake pedal, pull back
slightly on the handle, press the release button with the thumb, and let
the handle move forward.


_Windshield Wiper Control_ The windshield wiper control knob, located at
the top center of the instrument board, must be turned clockwise to
operate the wiper blades.


_Windshield Washer_ The Studebaker AC-2047 safety windshield washer is
equipped with a control button mounted on the dash just above and to the
left of the clutch pedal pad. To operate, exert a slight foot pressure
on the button, which will eject water to right and left Windshields. An
antifreeze and wetting agent is available from your dealer for injection
into the water supply jar.

_Windshield Washers are available at extra cost._


_Seat Cushion Auxiliary Springs_ To vary the front or rear seat cushion
resiliency for the driver or passengers, Select-O-Seat cushion springs
are available as an accessory.




                             RUN-IN PERIOD


The First 1000 Miles (1609 km.)

It is desirable to limit driving speeds during the first 1000 miles
(1609 km.) of operation in order that the closely fitted parts of the
engine and chassis may have an opportunity to “wear in” smoothly.

For the _first 500 miles_ (_805 km._) it is recommended that you do not
drive your car at speeds in excess of _50 miles (80,5 km.) per hour_.
For the _second 500 miles_ (_805 km._) it is recommended that you do not
drive your car at speeds in excess of _60 miles (96,6 km.) per hour_.

While it is always better to let your engine warm up at lower speeds,
you should, by all means, follow such a practice during the first 1000
miles (1609 km.) of operation.

Further, it is well to avoid _continuous_ high speed driving during the
first 1000 miles (1609 km.) even though the engine has been warmed up.


Engine Oil During Run-In

The use of special run-in oils is not necessary. Use only engine oils
produced by reputable oil companies.

During the run-in period it is important to change the oil shortly after
the engine is put into operation. Therefore, change oil _at least_ by
the end of the first 1000 miles (1609 km.). After 1000 miles (1609 km.),
change oil regularly. See page 32.

It is a good practice to have the oil level checked whenever gasoline is
purchased. Keep oil at the Full mark. _Do not overfill._

The viscosity of the oil to be used depends entirely upon prevailing
temperatures. See page 33.




                      LOCATION OF VEHICLE NUMBERS


  Serial Number   The serial number of your car is stamped on a plate
                  attached to the left front door lock pillar post.
                  Record it in the space provided.
  Engine Number   The engine number is stamped on a machined pad at
                  the upper left front of the cylinder block. Record
                  it in the space provided.
  Body Number     The body number is stamped on a plate attached to
                  the dash under the hood. Record it in the space
                  provided.
  Key Numbers     _Ignition and front doors:_
                  This number is stamped on a metal tag furnished with
                  the keys. Record it in the space provided.
                  _Package Compartment and Luggage Compartment Doors:_
                  This number is stamped on the compartment key or on
                  the lock housing. Record it in the space provided.


_Paint and Trim_ When ordering paint materials be sure that the serial
and body numbers above as well as the paint color name printed on the
sticker attached to the underside of the package compartment accompany
your order.

When trim materials are needed, it is important that the serial and body
numbers which you have recorded above be furnished.




                           OPERATING THE CAR


Starting The Engine

Before starting the engine be sure the gearshift lever is in neutral
position. Depress the accelerator to the toeboard once only and then
immediately release it. This permits the automatic choke to come into
full operation. This operation is essential to easy starting. Turn the
ignition key to the right. Then depress the clutch pedal to the toeboard
to operate the starter.

If engine should not start after a few revolutions, completely depress
accelerator and, holding it in this position, operate starter.


_Starting a Hot Engine_ It is easier to start a hot engine if the
accelerator is held approximately halfway to the floorboard until the
engine starts. Release the accelerator as soon as the engine starts.


_Warming Up the Engine_ A gasoline engine performs best when it reaches
an operating temperature of approximately 170° F. (76,7° C.). This is
the normal range indicated by the rectangular mark on the face of the
heat indicator. In cold weather the engine temperature should be raised
by allowing the engine to idle slowly before driving the car.

Do not drive the car until oil pressure registers on the gage. If it
registers above 40 lbs. (2,8 kgs.), drive slowly until pressure returns
to normal, or approximately 40 lbs. (2,8 kgs.).

After starting, the high idle system may cause the engine to “race”. If
so, depress and immediately release the accelerator.


Push or Tow Starting

Should the battery fail to supply enough current to start the engine
with the starter, place the transmission in conventional high gear and
either push or tow the car until the engine starts. _OD control (on cars
so equipped) must be in Out position._ Be sure ignition is On and
parking brake released.


Shifting the Gears

To shift the gears in either the conventional or overdrive ratios with
the steering post gearshift lever, follow this procedure:


                         TO SET CAR INTO MOTION

1. Start engine and with clutch pedal still depressed, place gearshift
      lever in low (first) gear position.

2. Release parking brake.

3. Release the clutch pedal gradually and at the same time slowly
      accelerate.


                    TO SHIFT FROM LOW TO SECOND GEAR

1. At approximately 10 miles (16 km.) per hour, release accelerator and
      depress clutch pedal.

2. Place gearshift lever in second (intermediate) gear position.

3. Release the clutch pedal gradually and at the same time slowly
      accelerate.


                    TO SHIFT INTO HIGH (THIRD) GEAR

1. At approximately 18 miles (29 km.) per hour, release accelerator and
      depress clutch pedal.

2. Shift lever into high (third) gear position.

3. Release the clutch pedal gradually and at the same time slowly
      accelerate. Without overdrive, this is the highest or cruising
      gear ratio.


                       TO SHIFT INTO REVERSE GEAR

1. _Bring the car to a complete stop._

2. Depress clutch pedal.

3. Place lever in reverse gear position.

4. Release the clutch pedal gradually and at the same time slowly
      accelerate.


_Shifting Tips_ To avoid excessive wear on the clutch, transmission, and
drive mechanism, never try to jump gears (that is, do not shift from low
to high, or start out in second and avoid using low) and never shift
from any gear—even the neutral position—into reverse until the car’s
motion is stopped. Also, never make a gear shift until the clutch pedal
is depressed, disengaging the clutch. Make it a habit to pause for an
instant in neutral as the gearshift lever passes from one gear ratio to
another.


Transmission Overdrive

The automatic overdrive operates only when the control handle, next to
the hood control handle and marked OD, is in its full forward position.
It engages automatically when the accelerator is released momentarily at
or above the overdrive cut-in speed of 30 to 35 miles (50 to 55 km.) per
hour.

If, while in overdrive, it is desired to gain more power for passing
cars in traffic or on grades, push the accelerator to the floorboard.
This cuts out the overdrive and it will remain inoperative until the
accelerator is again released. At that time the overdrive again engages
automatically.

The overdrive control can be pulled out, thereby locking the
transmission in the conventional position. This should be done for
descending steep, mountainous grades, _or when pushing or towing the car
to start the engine_. The circumstances under which this change can be
made safely are as follows:

1. To change the transmission from overdrive to the locked-in
      conventional position while the car is standing still, merely pull
      out the OD control.

2. To change the transmission from overdrive to the locked-in
      conventional position when driving below the overdrive cut-in
      speed of approximately 30-35 m.p.h. (50-55 km.) accelerate the
      engine and at the same time pull out the OD control.

3. To change the transmission from overdrive to the locked-in
      conventional position when driving in overdrive, completely
      depress the accelerator past the wide-open throttle position and
      as soon as the transmission is in conventional, pull out the OD
      control.

If the OD control is in the locked-in conventional position (pulled out)
it can be placed in the overdrive position while the car is standing
still. To make this change when the car is moving at any forward speed,
accelerate slightly and push the control fully forward.

_Overdrive is available at extra cost._


Automatic Hill Holder

The automatic Hill Holder retains the same degree of braking effort on
an upgrade as that applied by the driver in stopping _as long as the
clutch pedal is depressed_. The Hill Holder does not operate on level or
descending surfaces. However, the clutch must be depressed before
releasing the brake pedal. This permits the right foot to be removed
from the brake pedal to operate the accelerator when ready to resume
forward motion. Releasing the clutch pedal releases the action of the
Hill Holder.

To use the Hill Holder when stopping on an upgrade, depress the clutch
pedal and then apply foot brakes. The right foot may now be removed from
the brake pedal. To release Hill Holder action, release the clutch
pedal.

_Hill Holder is special equipment for the Champion available at extra
cost._


Studebaker Climatizer and Defroster

The Studebaker Climatizer is a fresh air heating and ventilating system.
Fresh air passes through an air duct and then through the Climatizer
heater core. The warmed air is discharged forward and rearward from
below the front seat and spreads uniformly through the car interior.

The Climatizer heat output is thermostatically controlled so that you
may select the degree of heating desired and be assured of its remaining
constant until you reset the control. Pushing or pulling the control
regulates a thermostat which in turn controls the flow of water through
the heater coils. The further outward you pull the control, the warmer
will be the hot air output of the Climatizer.

When the engine cooling water is cold and the control is in the closed
position, the thermostat permits a full flow of water into the heat core
until the temperature at the thermostat unit (just above the accelerator
pedal) reaches approximately 70° F. (21° C.). As the water gets warmer,
the thermostat will maintain that temperature. If you desire more heat
in the car, pull the Climatizer control. After using the Climatizer a
few times you will find the position of the control that gives you the
heat in the car which best suits your comfort. Further regulation of the
control will be unnecessary.

If you wish to obtain maximum heat flow in extremely cold weather, pull
the handle to its full “out” position. This will lock the valve open
until you push the handle forward.


Climatizer Operation

The entire range of Climatizer and defroster operation is controlled
through the use of the Climatizer and vent controls. The Climatizer
control operates thermostat when pulled or pushed, operates blowers when
turned. The vent control opens and closes the right outside cowl
ventilator.

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

  HIGH
  HEAT REGULATION
  OFF
  POSITIONS OF CLIMATIZER CONTROL
    1. Defroster High
    2. Defroster Low
    1. Climatizer Motor
    2. Climatizer Motor Plus Defroster Motor

1. To open the outside right cowl ventilator, move the control lever
      (directly beneath the package compartment) to the left. This is
      the position of the ventilator whenever you operate the Climatizer
      or want to draw fresh outside air into the car through the
      Climatizer system. To close the ventilator, move the control lever
      to the right. When using Climatizer, be sure the inner ventilator
      door is closed.

2. Pull Climatizer control handle outward to the position which gives
      the temperature desired by the car occupants. The further outward
      the control is pulled, the warmer the air will become.

3. Turn the Climatizer control handle clockwise to the first position to
      operate the Climatizer blower. Turning the control to the second
      position clockwise will continue the Climatizer blower operation
      and will also add the operation of the defroster blower.

      Air forced through the Climatizer system at car speeds above 25
      m.p.h. makes use of the Climatizer blower unnecessary when
      traveling steadily at or above such speeds.

4. Slight opening of one or more ventilators or windows permits some
      measure of directional control over circulation since warm air
      flow will be increased towards such openings. For uniform
      temperature and defrosting efficiency throughout the entire car,
      however, it is generally recommended that windows and vents be
      fully closed.

NOTE.—If upon entering a cold car, the accumulation of moisture on
      windshield and windows appears excessive, open the ventilator
      windows for rapid circulation until the moisture begins to clear.


_Defroster Operation_ Turn the Climatizer control counterclockwise to
the first position for maximum hot air flow through the defroster ducts;
turn control to the second position to reduce the defroster air flow.

_Climatizer and defroster are special equipment available at extra
cost._


Operation of the Convertible Top

The mechanically operated top of the Studebaker convertible models is
raised and lowered by an electric motor and prelubricated driving arms
and gears. The mechanism is controlled by a lever located at the left of
the two control handles at the lower edge of the instrument panel on the
driver’s side of the car. Moving the lever to the left raises the top,
and to the right, lowers it. When the lever is released from either of
these positions, it automatically returns to the central position,
stopping the electric motor.

_Always let the motor operate the top—never try to force the top up or
down by hand._


Top Operation Motor Circuit Breaker

The electric motor is guarded against short circuit and overload by a
30-ampere circuit breaker. Should a short circuit or overload occur in
the top operating system, the circuit breaker will automatically
interrupt the circuit and will continue to interrupt it until the cause
is eliminated.

If the circuit breaker interrupts the current flow for any reason, see
your Studebaker dealer.

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

  SNAP LOCK
  LOCKING HANDLE
    TO RELEASE
    TO LOCK


                     TO LOWER THE TOP—STOP THE CAR

1. Unsnap the fasteners on both sides of the top cover at the points
      indicated in the illustration below. Snap the top cover boot in
      place on the rear of the seat back. Remove any packages or other
      material from the top well behind the seat.

2. Pull both sun visors down and release the snap lock at the left of
      the locking handle on the header. Turn the top locking handle at
      the center of the header fully to the left (counterclockwise).
      Lift the top free of the pilots.

3. Move the control switch lever to the right and hold it in this
      position until the top rests on the rear deck of the car; then
      release the lever.

4. Cover the top with the boot and snap all boot fasteners in place.

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

  SNAP FASTENERS


                     TO RAISE THE TOP—STOP THE CAR

1. Unsnap the boot fasteners along the rear deck and side panels.
      Uncover the top and let the boot hang over the rear seat back.

2. After pulling down both sun visors, move the top operating lever to
      the left and hold it in this position until the top header is
      approximately one foot above the windshield pilots; then release
      the lever.

3. Grasp the top locking handle firmly with the right hand and guide the
      top down over the windshield pilots while the left hand holds the
      top operating lever at its “Raise” position. When the header rests
      on the windshield, release the control lever. Lock the snap lock
      at the left of the locking handle on the header. Lock the top
      securely to the windshield by turning the top locking handle
      clockwise two or three complete turns. Test the lock by attempting
      to lift the top free of the pilots.

4. Snap the fasteners in place along the top side rails and side panels
      on both sides of the top. There are 6 of these fasteners on each
      side. Let the boot fold down into the top compartment or unsnap
      the boot from the rear seat back and place it in the boot bag
      provided.




                                 NOTICE

The radiator of this car may be equipped with a _pressure-type cap_. If
it is so equipped, remove the cap by turning it slowly half-way to the
open position and pausing to permit relief of any vapor or steam
pressure present. Then complete turning of cap to the stop and remove
it.




                              LUBRICATION


Periodic Inspections

It is good for reasons of economy and to forestall unexpected need of
service to have your car inspected once a month or at 1000 mile (1609
km.) lubrication periods. An ideal time to have many of the parts or
units inspected is while the car is on the lubrication hoist in the
raised position.


Lubrication Operations

Proper lubrication is good assurance that your car will continue to
perform with increasing satisfaction. Only high quality lubricants
should be used on your car.

Your Studebaker dealer knows every lubrication requirement for your car.
Take it to him for periodic lubrication. The recommendations given in
the following paragraphs are, in many ways, the most important in the
entire booklet. If a lubrication service must, of necessity, be
performed by a non-Studebaker serviceman, be sure he understands the
requirements mentioned in this section and on the charts on pages 28,
29, and 30.

_Universal Joints_ Lubricate with light weight chassis lubricant at 1000
mile (1609 km.) intervals. Only a low pressure (hand) gun should be used
to lubricate these bearings.

_Transmission Lubricant_ The transmission should be filled to the level
of the filler plug hole with S.A.E. 90 mineral oil gear lubricant or
S.A.E. 40 engine oil, both summer and winter. On cars equipped with
overdrive transmission, fill _slowly_, using the fill hole of the main
case. For transmission capacities, see table on page 53.

                                                   (Continued on page 31)

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

  ★ 1,000 Miles (1.609 km.)
    ★ 5,000 Miles (8.046 km.)
      ★   10,000 Miles (16.090 km.)
  ★       UPPER and LOWER CONTROL ARM BUSHINGS—4 Fittings each
          Arm—Chassis Lubricant.
      ★   FRONT WHEEL BEARINGS—Wheel Bearing Lubricant.
  ★       STEERING KNUCKLE—1 Fitting—Chassis Lubricant.
  ★       STEERING BELL CRANK SHAFT—1 Fitting—Chassis Lubricant.
  ★   ★   TRANSMISSION—Conventional and Overdrive.
          CHECK LEVEL
          DRAIN and FLUSH
          LUBRICANT—High Grade Mineral Oil Gear Lubricant (Regular Type
          Gear Lubricant) of SAE No. 90 Viscosity or SAE No. 40 Engine
          Oil for Both Summer and Winter. Gear Lubricants Containing Any
          Extreme Pressure Ingredients, such as Lead, Sulphur, Chlorine
          Compounds Must Not Be Used.
  ★       AUTOMATIC DRIVE
          CHECK LEVEL
          Drain and Refill at 15.000 miles
          Use 10W premium type engine oil (SAE 10-10W premium type is
          also satisfactory). See Text, Preliminary Shop Manual covering
          Automatic Transmissions.
  ★       UNIVERSAL JOINTS—3 Fittings—Chassis Lubricant.
  ★   ★   REAR AXLE—
          CHECK LEVEL
          DRAIN and FLUSH
          LUBRICANT—Use Studebaker Hypoid Lubricant or any SAE No. 90
          Hypoid Lubricant (Multi-Purpose Gear Lubricant) Manufactured by
          a Reputable Oil Company. Do Not at Any Time Mix Various Brands
          of Hypoid Lubricants.
      ★   REAR AXLE SHAFT BEARING—Wheel Bearing Lubricant.
  ★       UPPER and LOWER CONTROL ARM BUSHINGS—4 Fittings each
          Arm—Chassis Lubricant.
      ★   FRONT WHEEL BEARINGS—Wheel Bearing Lubricant.
  ★       STEERING KNUCKLE—1 Fitting—Chassis Lubricant.
  ★       TIE ROD BALL JOINTS—4 Fittings—Chassis Lubricant.
  ★       STEERING REACH ROD—2 Fittings—Chassis Lubricant.
  ★       CLUTCH OPERATING SHAFT BRACKET BEARING—Engine Oil.
  ★       CLUTCH AND BRAKE PEDALS—1 Fitting—Chassis Lubricant.
  ★       CLUTCH PEDAL LINKAGE—2 Clevis Pins—Engine Oil.
  ★       CLUTCH RELEASE SHAFT—1 Fitting—Chassis Lubricant.
  ★       HILL HOLDER LINKAGE—Spray—Engine Oil.
  ★       GEARSHIFT RODS—Engine Oil.
  ★       PARKING BRAKE LINKAGE—Spray—Engine Oil.
  ★       PROPELLER SHAFT SPLINES—1 Fitting—Chassis Lubricant.
      ★   REAR AXLE SHAFT BEARING—Wheel Bearing Lubricant.
    ★     GENERATOR—2 Oilers—SAE No. 20 Engine Oil.
  ★       OIL FILLER TUBE CAP—Service Every 1,000 Miles or Daily if Dust
          Conditions are Severe. Wash the Element in Kerosene and allow
          to Dry Thoroughly. Apply Light Engine Oil to Element.
    ★     DISTRIBUTOR—SAE No. 20 Engine Oil—3 to 5 Drops on Felt Under
          Rotor and in Oil Cup at Side. Small Amount of Petroleum Jelly
          on Cam.
    ★     STEERING GEAR[1]
          Ross—Special lubricant as approved by Ross Gear and Tool
          Company of Lafayette, Indiana
          Saginaw—Multi-Purpose SAE 90 gear lubricant
  ★       GEARSHIFT CONTROL CASE (Conventional and Overdrive Only)—One
          Fitting—Chassis Lubricant.
    ★     OIL FILTER—Under Normal Conditions, the Oil Filter Cartridge
          Should be Replaced after Five to Six Thousand Miles of
          Operation. Where Severe Dust and Dirt Conditions Prevail, It
          will be Necessary to Replace the Oil Filter Cartridge at
          Correspondingly Lower Mileages.
  ★       CARBURETOR AIR CLEANER—Service Every 1,000 Miles Where Dust
          Conditions Prevail. It May be Necessary to Services the Unit
          Daily; or More Often Under Severe Dust Conditions.
          To Service the “Oil Bath” Type, Remove Cleaner. Wash Filter
          Element in Kerosene and Drain Thoroughly. Clean Oil Reservoir
          and Refill to Indicated Level. Use SAE 30 Engine Oil for above
          +32° F. and SAE 20 Engine Oil for below +32° F. Do Not Use an
          Oil Lighter than SAE 20.
          To Service the “Oil Coated Filter” Type, Remove the Filter
          Element. Wash in Kerosene and Shake Out Until Dry. Reoil the
          Element Thoroughly With Fresh Clean Oil. Allow the Excess Oil
          to Drain Off, and Reinstall Element.
  ★       ENGINE OIL LEVEL GAGE—Check Oil Level Add or Change Oil as
          Required. Crankcase capacity—5 U.S. Quarts.

              Lowest Temp Anticipated               Oil Viscosity

                      +32° F.                           SAE 30
                      +10° F.                           SAE 20
                      -10° F.                     SAE 10-10W or 10W
  ★ 1,000 Miles (1.609 km.)
    ★ 5,000 Miles (8.046 km.)
      ★   10,000 Miles (16.090 km.)


[1]The make of steering gear can be identified by location of filler
    hole plug. On Ross, it is at upper end of housing. On Saginaw, it is
    on a base near center of housing.


    [Illustration: CHAMPION
    The Lubrication Points Established Are For Average Use and Should Be
    Changed to Suit Individual Operating Conditions]

                                                 (Continued from page 27)


_Rear Axle Lubricant_ Use Studebaker hypoid lubricant or any S.A.E. 90
hypoid lubricant (multi-purpose type gear lubricant) for summer and
winter. _Do not mix various brands of hypoid lubricants._ Use light
engine oil for flushing. _Do not use kerosene._


_Crankcase Oil Level_ The oil in the crankcase is checked by withdrawing
the oil level gage on the left side of the engine. The oil filler pipe
cap contains a filtering element to clean the air of any impurities
before it enters the crankcase. This filter is easily cleaned by
removing the cap and immersing it in kerosene. Allow filter cap to dry
thoroughly. Then dip cap in a good grade of engine oil so that filtering
element is thoroughly oil coated. Drain off excess oil and replace cap.
It’s a good idea to have the oil level checked when purchasing gasoline.

Never allow oil level shown on oil level gage to fall below the ADD OIL
mark. DO NOT OVERFILL.


_Engine Oil Filter_ The Fram oil filter (on cars so equipped) assists in
removing dirt and foreign matter from the oil and is provided with a
replaceable filter element.

Under normal conditions the Fram Filter cartridge should be replaced
after approximately every 5000 miles (8046 km.) of operation. Severe
dust conditions may warrant replacing the cartridge at correspondingly
lower mileages.

When it is necessary to replace the cartridge, care should be taken to
see that a new cover gasket is installed and that the cover is securely
tightened. The cover should also be checked occasionally to make sure
that it remains tight.


_Engine Oil Renewal_ Engine oil should be changed _at least_ by the end
of the first 1000 miles (1609 km.). After this period the oil should be
changed regularly, the frequency depending on the condition of the oil
as affected by operating and atmospheric conditions.

Under average driving conditions oil should be changed at 2500 to 3000
mile (4023 to 4828 km.) intervals.


_Engine Oil Viscosity_ “Engine oil viscosity” is a term which indicates,
broadly, the “body” of the oil to be used in your engine, although other
scientific considerations enter into assigning viscosity numbers to oil.

    [Illustration: _Change oil filter element every 5000 miles!
    Check oil level whenever you buy gasoline!_]

Generally speaking, you use a thin oil in winter because it flows more
freely in cold temperatures than a thick oil. Since, as stated above,
the oil in your car’s crankcase, if of good quality, will be useful for
many hundreds of miles, it is impractical to change oil more often than
necessary. Therefore, we list below the viscosities of engine oil
recommended for your car at lowest prevailing temperature generally
expected in your locality during the various seasons of the year.

    [Illustration: {uncaptioned}]

  LOWEST TEMPERATURE ANTICIPATED   OIL RECOMMENDATION

         +32° F. (0° C.)               S.A.E. 30
       +10° F. (-12.2° C.)             S.A.E. 20
       -10° F. (-23.3° C.)           S.A.E. 10W[2]
    Below -10° F. (-23.3° C.)         S.A.E. 5W[3]


[2]Oil in cans marked 10W or S.A.E. 10-10W is satisfactory for use where
    S.A.E. 10W is recommended.

[3]The engine should not be operated at sustained high speeds when using
    S.A.E. 5W engine oil.


Most of the higher priced motor oils sold today contain chemical
detergents which hold extremely small particles of carbon or other
foreign matter in suspension. Many of the particles are so small that
they flow through the oil filters with the oil and remain in suspension.
For this reason, oil which is perfectly good for lubrication purposes
may be discolored when seen on the oil level gage. With such oils the
need for an oil change should be governed by the mileage the oil has
been used and the dust conditions prevalent during that mileage. As long
as the oil retains a “slick” quality and good body, it is generally
satisfactory.

    [Illustration: Raise or lower car with jack _outside_ bumper bar.]

  UP POSITION
  DOWN POSITION

    [Illustration: Remove wheel cover ... retaining nuts ... and wheel.]

  VERTICAL BUMPER BAR

    [Illustration: Replace spare and tools snugly in proper spaces.]

  JACK SHAFT HOLDER
  JACK SHAFT
  RETAINER NUT
  RETAINER
  JACK MECHANISM
  JACK HANDLE AND WHEEL LUG WRENCH
  JACK BASE




                     If you must change a tire ...


1. Before using jack, set parking brake by depressing brake pedal and
      pull outward on parking brake handle. On steep grades, it may be
      advisable to block the front or rear wheels as an extra precaution
      against rolling.

2. Open luggage compartment and unscrew single lug nut to free spare
      wheel and tire. Remove jack base, jack handle, spare wheel and
      tire, and bumper jack.

3. Place jack base so that jack lip will contact underside of bumper at
      outer edge of the vertical bumper bar on the flat tire side of the
      car. Also place base so that it will be about one inch inward from
      the outer edge of the bumper.

4. Put the jack mechanism lever in the UP position. Place lip of jack in
      contact with the underside of the bumper against the outer edge of
      the vertical bumper bar.

5. Use chisel end of jack handle to remove hub cover. Then place chisel
      end of the jack in the jack mechanism and jack up the car. Note—If
      tire to be changed is on a front wheel, jack up only a few notches
      to be sure jack is secure, then start wheel lug nuts loose before
      continuing the jacking up process. On rear wheels, the parking
      brake will hold the wheel so that the nuts can be loosened after
      the car has been jacked up.

6. On wheels on the left side of the car, the wheel lug nuts are
      left-hand threaded. To remove them, use the hexagonal wrench end
      of the jack handle and turn the nuts clockwise. On wheels on the
      right side of the car, the nuts are removed by turning them
      counterclockwise. Nuts are installed by turning them in the
      direction opposite to that used in removing them.

7. Raise car with jack until wheel is free of the road and can revolve
      freely. This is important to be sure you have enough clearance to
      install spare. Remove flat tire and wheel and place spare wheel
      and tire over studs. Install lug nuts and tighten uniformly and
      firmly.

8. Lower jack by first placing jack mechanism lever in its DOWN position
      and work the jack with the handle in the same manner as when
      raising car.

9. Replace tools and spare in this order: Jack shaft and mechanism go
      into the holder provided at the right of the spare wheel well.
      Jack mechanism must fit snug against bulge of tire to prevent
      rattling. Next install the spare wheel and tire, being sure the
      hinged bolt comes through the wheel hub hole. Place retainer plate
      over bolt and screw on the retainer nut. Wedge jack handle and
      jack base between tire and well. Put luggage compartment lid
      handle in closed position, _lock handle and remove key, and close
      lid_.




                      MAINTENANCE AND CARE OF CAR


Storage Battery

The storage battery is located under the hood on the left side. The
carrier clamp bolt wing nuts should be kept finger tight but not so
tight as to crack the battery case.

    [Illustration: Place cap on safety-vent forming air lock in
    breather-chamber]

    [Illustration: Fill well with distilled water. Air lock prevents
    solution rising above bottom of well.]

    [Illustration: Remove cap from safety-vent and solution drops to
    correct level. Replace cap in filter hole.]

Have the following three items checked frequently:

1. Water level—maintain at the proper height with distilled water.

2. The specific gravity of the battery solution.

3. Battery connections—should be clean and tight.


_Charging Precautions_ It is advisable to observe the following
precautions when charging a battery at home or elsewhere. During the
charging and for a short time immediately thereafter, the chemical
reaction in the battery gives off hydrogen gas in sufficient quantities
as to be explosive. When working near a battery being charged, or just
after it has been charged, it is important that no flame or spark have
an opportunity to ignite the hydrogen gas. To prevent possibility of a
static electricity spark’s causing such an explosion with the battery in
the car, it is well to ground the car electrically by means of a metal
bar or chain running from the car’s frame or bumper to the ground. When
the charging or recently charged battery is out of the car, it should be
placed where it will not be exposed to flame, spark, or static
electricity.


Minimize Oil Dilution and Sludge

The crankcase is provided with a cross ventilation system to reduce
harmful dilution of the engine oil by water and fuel. Crankcase dilution
is aggravated by low speed driving with frequent stops and starts
because the engine does not warm up to the normal operating temperature.
The driver can materially assist in preventing this condition by
observing the following suggestions:

1. After starting, give the engine time to warm up before driving.

2. Keep the engine in good mechanical condition. See that the
      compression is good and that the ignition and carburetion systems
      are kept in peak condition.

3. Clean the crankcase at least once a year, preferably when winter oil
      is changed for summer weight oil.

4. Use the proper grade of a reputable engine oil.

5. Use a good grade of fresh gasoline.

6. Check thermostat operation.

Operating an engine at subnormal temperatures causes a much more rapid
dilution of the crankcase oil than is experienced at normal
temperatures.


Rust and Corrosion Inhibitor

Because of the chemical reaction between metal and the lime or other
minerals in water, one U. S. pint (.833 Imperial pt., 0.47 liters) of an
approved inhibitor such as Studebaker Cooling System Rust Inhibitor or
Resistor should be added to the cooling system of every new car and
replenished as needed throughout the life of the car. This will help
protect the entire cooling system (radiator, cylinder block, cylinder
head, and water pump) from any chemical corrosions, rust, or
calcification within the radiator core which may restrict the passages.
This does not, however, dispense with the need of flushing the cooling
system seasonally, spring and fall. Following each draining a pint of
the inhibitor should be used unless it is included in the new coolant.

Many anti-freeze compounds do contain a rust inhibitor. Ask your dealer
whether the anti-freeze you use during the winter is of this kind. If
so, it will not be necessary to install a rust inhibitor in the cooling
system while such an anti-freeze is in use.




                                CAUTION

Carbon Monoxide _is a lethal gas, odorless, tasteless, and colorless,
found in the exhaust fumes of all engines. Never start the engine in a
closed garage. Always open garage doors wide before starting the engine
and keep the doors open as long as the engine is operating._


Gasoline Economy

The kind of gasoline you use in your new Studebaker is an important
factor in performance, economy, and service.

It is important to purchase your gasoline from a dealer selling the
product of a reputable refinery in sufficient volume to assure fresh,
clean gasoline which hasn’t accumulated moisture, dirt and tank
settlings from lying dormant for relatively long periods.


_Speed_ Drive at a moderate and constant speed.


_Idling_ Shut off the engine while parked, even for a few minutes, such
as waiting for long freight trains at railroad crossings. Idling, except
to warm up a cold engine, is sheer waste.


_Stopping_ Come to a gradual stop whenever possible. This saves fuel,
brake lining, and tires.


_Accelerating_ If peak economy is to be obtained, acceleration must be
gradual. Rapid acceleration wastes gasoline.


_Tires_ Keep your tires properly inflated.


_Lubrication_ Keep both the engine and chassis well lubricated at all
times. This reduces friction to a minimum.


_Mechanical Condition_ Periodic “tuning” of the engine by your
Studebaker dealer’s service department will insure maximum mechanical
efficiency necessary to good gasoline mileage.


Tire Inflation and Care

Inflate and check tires to recommended pressures given on page 53 with
the tires cold (at atmospheric temperatures), and not after a long run.

If your tires are checked immediately after a long run, do not permit
the attendant to reduce the pressures by letting out air. Wait until the
tires have had a chance to cool before checking pressures.

You can ensure more even wear of all tires by having your Studebaker
dealer criss-cross them according to the latest factory recommendations
at approximately 4000 mile (6437 km.) intervals. Have tires and wheels
checked for need of balance after each criss-crossing.


Ignition Timing

For economy of fuel consumption and noiseless combustion relative to the
type of gasoline used, the ignition timing may be advanced or retarded.
Such an adjustment should be made by your Studebaker dealer.


Carburetor Air Cleaner

Two types of air cleaner are available for Studebaker cars. One is the
“oil wetted” type for cars operated a greater part of the time over
pavement and roads which are comparatively free from dust. The other is
known as the “oil bath” type and is available at extra cost for cars
operated where dust conditions are severe.

Dust particles, although microscopically small, are highly abrasive and
tend to score and cut the smooth glasslike surfaces of working
parts—increasing the rate of wear. The proper type of air cleaner
installed on your car, properly maintained and serviced, will increase
the life of the engine, and aid in maintaining its normal efficiency.

    [Illustration: OIL WETTED AIR CLEANER]

  WING NUT
  FILTER ELEMENT

Because local conditions alone determine the frequency of air cleaner
service, it will be necessary to ask your dealer how often this should
be performed.


                 TO SERVICE THE OIL WETTED AIR CLEANER

1. Remove the filter element, clean with kerosene, and shake out until
      dry.

2. When thoroughly dry submerge in a good grade of engine oil and allow
      excess oil to drain before reinstalling the element in the
      cleaner.

3. Replace filter element and wipe off all excess oil.


                  TO SERVICE THE OIL BATH AIR CLEANER

1. Remove the filter element, clean in kerosene, and allow to dry
      thoroughly.

2. Clean the oil reservoir.

3. Pour one pint of new engine oil into the reservoir. S.A.E. 50 for
      above 32° F. (0° C.) S.A.E. 20 for below 32° F. (0° C.) is
      recommended for this purpose. Do not use an oil lighter than
      S.A.E. 20 in the cleaner at any time.

4. Reassemble element and filter unit and install on car.

    [Illustration: OIL BATH AIR CLEANER]

  WING NUT
  COVER AND FILTER ASSEMBLY
  OIL LEVEL
  RESERVOIR


Draining The Cooling System

To drain the cooling system, drain the radiator, block, and, if car is
so equipped, Climatizer and defroster.

    [Illustration: _ALL FIVE OF THESE OUTLETS MUST BE OPENED WHEN
    DRAINING THE COOLING SYSTEM._]

  _Remove one defroster hose under the hood._
  _Cyl. Block water drain._
  _Radiator drain._
  _Remove both hoses from Climatizer heater core._


Anti-Freeze Solutions

Either the alcohol-base or ethylene-glycol base anti-freeze is
recommended for use in your Studebaker. Be sure the brand you select
contains a rust inhibitor. Do not use an anti-freeze preparation which
contains salt, sugar, calcium chloride, soda, or petroleum base
compounds.

Reputable anti-freeze companies supply their dealers with charts showing
the amount of anti-freeze to use for protection to various anticipated
temperatures, depending upon cooling system capacity given on page 53.


Care of Car Finish

The high luster, hard-baked enamel finish of your new Studebaker is best
retained by an application of approved Studebaker Cleaner and Polish or
Cleaner and Wax after each washing. The enamel, however, should not be
subjected to an application of wax of any kind during the first 60 days
so that sufficient time may be provided for the finish to become fully
hardened.

Approved Studebaker appearance maintenance materials are available from
your Studebaker dealer. These are recommended to remove the accumulation
of road scum and dullness resulting from weather or road conditions and
to restore the luster of the enamel finish. Do not become alarmed when
polishing or waxing if a slight amount of color appears on the cloth.
This is a natural condition.

Alcohol, anti-freeze mixtures containing alcohol, and calcium chloride
or other chemical mixtures used to melt snow and ice or to settle dust
should be flushed with water as soon as possible in order to avoid
damage to the enamel finish and chromium parts.


Washing the Car

When washing the car, first saturate all foreign substances on the
finish with cold water. Then use a clean sponge and running water for
the removal of dirt. Dry the body with a clean, damp chamois skin, using
a straight horizontal or vertical motion, rather than a circular motion.
It is important that a different sponge and chamois skin be used on the
body from that used on the chassis.

Chromium and nickel plated finishes are of a perishable nature and will
deteriorate if not properly cared for. These parts should be kept clean
and free from dirt and foreign matter. To clean chromium plated parts,
use clear water and a clean cloth. To protect the finish after the parts
are cleaned, apply a coating of paste-type body wax. _For further
details on chrome plated parts, see the card placed in the package
compartment._


Care of Cloth Upholstery

Clean upholstery means not only a better looking automobile but gives
longer wear and affords greater comfort and enjoyment.

The use of a vacuum cleaner and a thorough brushing of the upholstery
and headlining (with the nap or pile) will usually brighten the interior
noticeably. Remove the cushions from the car and brush to remove foreign
particles from the fabric.

Studebaker Fabric Cleaner (available through Studebaker dealers) is
effective in removing all types of stains and does not harm the
upholstery.

Seat and side upholstery can be washed safely with soap and water. Use
lukewarm water and a neutral soap. The suds should be good and frothy,
not watery. Apply in moderate quantities with a damp cloth, sponge, or
soft brush. Remove soap suds with a clean, damp cloth or sponge, then
wipe the surface several times with a dry cloth. While the material is
still damp, brush it lightly with a whisk broom or brush of medium
stiffness. Permit air to circulate freely over the wet upholstery. When
dry, brush again to loosen any minute matting. When brushing, always
brush fabric with the lay of the pile or nap.


Cleaning Leather Upholstery

Leather upholstery may be cleaned with a soft sponge and saddle soap.
Make a light suds with lukewarm water and saddle soap. This type of soap
is especially suitable for cleaning leather and leaves the surface soft
and pliable.

Rinse the sponge occasionally in clean water. After completing the
cleaning operation, use a clean, soft cloth to polish the surface of the
leather.


Cleaning Rubber Parts

Studebaker Chromium Cleaner (powder type AC-1464) is recommended for
cleaning white sidewall tires. Studebaker Black Rubber Finish is
recommended for black tires and all black rubber parts.


Care of the Convertible Fabric Top

The life of any convertible top can be materially lengthened if care is
taken to _lower the top only when it is dry. Never operate the top motor
when the car is in motion._

Tops used on Studebaker convertible models are made of a two-ply
material. The face of the black top is made of cotton and rayon. The
face of the light-colored tops used on some Studebaker convertible
models is made of _Orlon_[4] acrylic fiber and will not shrink, mildew,
or stretch as a result of exposure to the elements. These facing
materials are bound to a cotton backing material.


_Cleaning_ Traffic grime and most other soiling may be removed by
washing the top with a sudsy mixture of mild (neutral) soap and warm
water. A soft brush may be used if necessary. Strong solvents, naphtha,
or carbon tetrachloride are not recommended for cleaning this fabric.


_Rear Windows_ of convertible tops are made of a clear plastic material.
They should not be wiped while dry since the abrasive particles in the
dust will tend to scratch the surface of the plastic. Clean the
convertible top rear window by flooding it with cold water and wiping
off the dirt with a soft cloth or sponge during the flooding process.


[4]Du Pont trade-mark.




                        SERVICE AND ADJUSTMENTS


Engine Tune-Up

Occasionally your serviceman will recommend an engine tune-up. The
frequency of tune-ups depends almost entirely on the amount of driving
and the type of driving you do. When you purchase a tune-up, we
recommend that you request at least the following operations:

1. Check the manifold heater valve for free operation.

2. Clean and adjust spark plugs; install with new gaskets.

3. Clean carburetor air cleaner.

4. Clean fuel pump bowl and strainer; install with new gasket.

5. Clean inside of distributor cover, cable terminals, and sockets.

6. Tighten cylinder head cap screws to recommended tension.

7. Adjust fan belt.

8. Remove and clean carburetor choke thermostatic control. Replace with
      new gasket and adjust, if necessary.

9. Check and set ignition timing.

10. Adjust carburetor idle screw with engine at normal operating
      temperatures.

11. Adjust idle stop screw to produce engine speed corresponding with 8
      miles (13 km.) per hour road speed in high gear.


Adjustments and Other Service

_Carburetor Adjustment for High Altitude_ The carburetor is carefully
calibrated to provide efficient operation. Studebaker dealers are
acquainted with the adjustments which are needed for high altitude
operation.


_Brake Adjustment_ The self-adjusting brakes on your car are
self-compensating for lining wear and require no adjustment. They are
properly set at the factory.

With each application of the brakes, however, the linings wear and,
after a time, new linings should be installed to provide the maximum
braking area and to avoid damage to the brake drums. When the lining
needs replacement, the self-adjusting feature ceases to operate. When
this occurs, the brake pedal free travel will increase and the driver is
warned that the brakes need relining. If your brakes do not operate
satisfactorily, see your Studebaker dealer.


_Clutch Pedal Travel Adjustment_ Clutch pedal free travel is the
distance the pedal moves forward before resistance of the release
mechanism is felt. When the free travel is greater than one inch (25,4
mm.) or less than one-half inch (12,7 mm.) adjustment should be made by
your Studebaker dealer.


_The Hill Holder_ (on cars so equipped) should be checked and adjusted
if necessary whenever the clutch pedal travel is adjusted.


_Fan Belt Adjustment_ To insure efficient fan, water pump and generator
operation, it is important that the fan belt is not over-tightened. Any
readjustment should be performed by a Studebaker dealer.


_Front Wheel Camber Adjustment_ Camber adjustment is properly set at the
factory ½° greater on the driver’s side of the car than on the other
side. Should a front end alignment check reveal need of camber
readjustment, it should be set as nearly to ¾° on driver’s side and ¼°
on the other side as possible. In any setting, the driver’s side camber
should be ½° more than the other side.


_Body Drain Holes_ All drain holes should be kept open to prevent
accumulation of water.

The door drain holes are easily cleared with a pen-knife or other flat
instrument which can be inserted in the holes and run back and forth a
few times to loosen any congestion.

Body drain holes should be cleaned by the serviceman.

       See page 54 for minimum seasonal service recommendations.

    [Illustration: Criss-cross Tires Regularly. (See page 41)]




                        TECHNICAL REFERENCE DATA


If emergency adjustments or repairs must be made at shops other than
authorized Studebaker dealerships, ask the repairman to refer to this
section of your Owner’s Guide to be sure that he understands the several
“special-to-Studebaker” measurements and other service data given below.

  IGNITION

  Breaker point gap                                .020″ (0,508 mm.)
             (_Check every 10,000 miles_ [_16,090 km._])
  Breaker arm tension                 17 to 20 oz. (481,95 to 566,99
                                                              grams)
  Spark plug gap                       .022″-.027″ (0,559-0,686 mm.)
  Note:—_In normal use, check every 5000 miles (8046 km.) and
  replace after 10,000 miles (16.090 km.). Under some conditions of
  operation it may be desirable to clean and adjust spark plugs
  every 2500 miles (4023 km.)._
  Firing order                                           1-5-3-6-2-4
                   (_No. 1 is the front cylinder_)

  VALVES

  Tappet clearance (engine cold)                   .016″ (0,406 mm.)
                         _Intake and Exhaust_
  Angle of valve seat                                            45°

  ENGINE OIL PRESSURE

  40 miles (64 km) per hour           20 to 40 lbs. (1,4 kgs. to 2,8
                                           kgs.) reading on oil gage
  Pressure at which relief valve opens                       40 lbs.
                                                                (2,8
                                                               kgs.)

  CIRCUIT BREAKERS AND FUSES                                 Amperes

  Circuit Breaker—Head, Parking, Tail, and Instrument             30
  Lights
  Circuit Breaker—Convertible Top Motor                           30
  Circuit Breaker—Body and Stop Lights                            20
  Circuit Breaker—Climatizer and Defroster                        20
  Overdrive                                                       20
  Fog Lights                                                      20
  Radio                                                           14
  Electric Directional Signal                                     14
  Underhood Light                                                  5
  Electric Clock                                                   3

  BATTERY

  Voltage                                                          6
  Specific Gravity                         1.280-1.300 fully charged
  Willard Number                                           HDW-1-100
           _Do not overfill. Check water level frequently_

  BRAKES (HYDRAULIC)

  Pedal free travel                  1/16″ to 3/16″ (1,6 to 4,8 mm.)
         (_Before the master cylinder piston starts to move_)

  CLUTCH

  Pedal free travel                      ½″ to 1″ (12,7 to 25,4 mm.)

  LAMP BULB SPECIFICATIONS
             Location               Voltage and Number      Candle
                                                             Power

  Headlight                       6-8 Sealed Beam No. 4030
    (_For Right Hand Drive Use 45-20 Watt Metal Back Sealed Unit_)
  Parking                         6-8 Mazda No. 63                 3
  (With Directional Signals)      6-8 Mazda No. 1158            3-21
  Tail                            6-8 Mazda No. 1154               3
  Stop                                       ″                    21
  Instruments                     6-8 Mazda No. 55                1½
  Trunk                                      ″                     ″
  Dome                            6-8 Mazda No. 88                15
  License Plate                   6-8 Mazda No. 63                 3
  Tell-Tale Headlight Beam        6-8 Mazda No. 51                 ½
  Directional Signal
     Front                        6-8 Mazda No. 1158            21-3
     Rear                         6-8 Mazda No. 1129              21
     Tell-Tale                    6-8 Mazda No. 55                1½
  Map                             6-8 Mazda No. 88                15
  Package Compartment             6-8 Mazda No. 55                1½
  Underhood                       6-8 Mazda No. 87                15
  Fog Lamp                        6-8 Mazda No. 4015 clear glass
  Radio                           6-8 Mazda No. 44
  Clock                           6-8 Mazda No. 55                1½
  Cigar Lighter                   6-8 Mazda No. 51                 ½
  Ash Tray                        6-8 Mazda No. 51                 ½

  STEERING

  Toe-In                          1/16″ to ⅛″ (1,58 mm. to 3,16 mm.)
  Caster                                         -1° to -2½° No Load
  Camber                                           0° to +1° No Load
                (_See page 50 for camber adjustment_)
  King Pin Inclination                                           5¼°

  TIRE PRESSURES

  6.40 x 15                                 26 lbs. (1,82 kgs) front
                                             24 lbs. (1,68 kgs) rear
      _Above pressures are with tires cool (local temperatures)_

  CAPACITIES
                                    U. S.       Imperial     Liters

  Engine (Crankcase)              5.00 quarts  4.17 quarts      4,73
  Cooling System                 10.00 quarts  8.35 quarts      9,50
     with Climatizer             11.50 quarts  9.60 quarts     10,80
  Transmission—Conventional        1.60 pints   1.33 pints      0,75
  Transmission—Overdrive           2.75 pints   2.29 pints      1,36
  Rear Axle                        2.50 pints   2.08 pints      1,18
  Gasoline Tank                         18.00        15.00     68,00
                                      gallons      gallons

  LICENSE DATA

  Model Number                                                   12G
  Number of Cylinders                                              6
  Cylinder Bore                                        3″ (76,2 mm.)
  Stroke                                              4″ (101,6 mm.)
  Piston Displacement                       169.6 cu. in. (2780 cc.)
  Horsepower (NACC or RAC Rating)                               21.6
  Weight—See your dealer. Weight varies by body style and special
  equipment. Your car’s registerable weight is ............ pounds.




                       MINIMUM SEASONAL SERVICES


                                  FALL

_Cooling System:_ Drain and reverse flush cooling and heating systems.
      Check entire system for leaks. Refill radiator with correct
      _anti-freeze_ solution, including Rust Inhibitor if not contained.

_Crankcase:_ Drain and refill crankcase with good oil of correct grade.
      Change filter cartridge if not recently changed.

_Brakes:_ Check for need of service.

_Steering:_ Check wheel alignment (camber, toe-in, king pin
      inclination). Inspect all steering connections.

_Generator:_ Check generator output.

_Battery:_ Test specific gravity of battery. Check water level. Clean,
      tighten, and coat terminals with petroleum jelly.

_Cylinder Head:_ Tighten cylinder head bolts with torque wrench.

_Lubrication:_ Lubricate chassis (unless performed in last 1000 miles)
      including any periodic lubrication requirements due.

_Fuel System:_ Clean fuel pump bowl and reset carburetor adjustment if
      necessary.

_Starter:_ Check efficiency for proper current draw from battery.


                                 SPRING

_Cooling System:_ Drain and reverse flush. Check thermostat. Check
      condition of radiator hose fan belt. Refill cooling system and
      install Rust Inhibitor.

_Crankcase:_ Clean inside of engine crankcase. Clean Floto screen.
      Change engine oil. Install new filter cartridge if not recently
      changed.

_Brakes:_ Check brakes for need of service.

_Steering:_ Check wheel alignment (camber, toe-in, king pin
      inclination). Inspect all steering connections.

_Generator:_ Check generator output.

_Battery:_ Test specific gravity of battery. Check water level. Clean,
      tighten, and coat terminals with petroleum jelly.

_Cylinder Head:_ Tighten cylinder head bolts with torque wrench.

_Lubrication:_ Lubricate chassis (unless performed in last 1000 miles)
      including any periodic lubrication requirements due.

_Fuel System:_ Clean fuel pump bowl and reset carburetor adjustment if
      necessary.

_Starter:_ Check efficiency for proper current draw from battery.

    THESE REQUIREMENTS MAY VARY WITH DIFFERING CLIMATIC CONDITIONS.




                             WIRING DIAGRAM


    [Illustration: SIMPLIFIED WIRING DIAGRAM]

  HEAD LAMP
  FOG LAMP
  PARKING LAMP PARKING
  LAMP
  FOG LAMP
  HEAD LAMP
  CONNECTOR
  GENERATOR
  BATTERY
  HORNS
  RELAY
  COIL
  DIST.
  STARTER
  START SWITCH
  FOOT DIMMER-SWITCH
  IGNITION SWITCH
  HEADLIGHT SWITCH
  FOGLIGHT SWITCH
  20 AMP. FUSE
  HORN BUTTON
  AMMETER
  AUXILIARY CIRCUIT BREAKER
  STOPLIGHT SWITCH

  A-#10 BLACK
  B-#10 RED
  C-#10 WHITE
  D-#12 BLACK
  E-#12 RED & BLACK
  F-#14 WHITE & BLACK
  G-#14 BLACK
  H-#14 RED
  I-#14 BLUE
  J-#14 BLACK & GREEN
  K-#16 BLACK
  L-#16 RED
  N-#16 GREEN
  O-#16 BLACK & OAK
  T-#16 WHITE & RED
  V-#14 CHROME
  Z-#16 RED & WHITE




                                 INDEX


                                   A
  Air Cleaner                                                         41
  Ammeter                                                              5
  Anti-freeze                                                         44
  Ash Receiver                                                        11


                                   B
  Battery                                                             37
  Body, drain holes                                                   50
  Body Number                                                         15
  Brakes, adjustment                                                  49
  Brakes, controls                                                    13


                                   C
  Capacities, table of                                                53
  Carbon monoxide                                                     39
  Carburetor, adjustment                                              49
  Care of the car                                                     44
  Changing tires                                                      35
  Circuit breakers                                                    51
  Climatizer and defroster                                            21
  Clutch pedal                                                        12
      travel adjustment                                               49
  Convertible top, care                                               47
      operation                                                       23
  Cooling system, draining                                            43


                                   D
  Defroster operation                                                 23
  Dome light                                                          10


                                   E
  Engine, oil recommendations                                         31
      Run-in period                                                   14
      Starting                                                        16


                                   F
  Fan belt, adjustment                                                49
  Fuel economy                                                        40
  Fuses                                                               51
  Gasoline gage                                                        6
  Gearshift, steering post                                            12
      operation                                                       17


                                   H
  Headlights, beam control                                            10
  Heat Indicator                                                       6
  Hill Holder                                                         20
  Hood lock                                                            9
  Horsepower                                                          53


                                   I
  Ignition, data                                                      51
      timing                                                          41
      switch operation                                                 5
  Inflation pressures, tires                                          41
  Inspection                                                          27
  Instrument lights                                                   10
  Instruments and controls                                             5


                                   J
  Jack, use of                                                        35


                                   K
  Keys, numbers                                                       15
      locks                                                            7


                                   L
  Lamp bulbs, specifications                                          52
  License data                                                        53
  License plate light                                                 11
  Lights, control                                                      9
  Locks and keys                                                       7
  Lubrication, chart                                                  28
      operations                                                      27
  Luggage compartment, light                                          11
      Lock and lid                                                    12


                                   M
  Maintenance and care of car                                         37
  Map light                                                           10
  Model number                                                        53


                                   O
  Oil, dilution and sludge                                            38
      filter service                                                  31
      level                                                           31
      pressure gage                                                    7
      renewal                                                         32
      viscosities                                                     32
  Operating the car                                                   16
  Overdrive, operation                                                18


                                   P
  Package compartment                                                 11
      card                                                            26
  Paint, ordering by symbol                                           15
  Parking brake operation                                             13
  Parking lights                                                       9
  Push or tow starting                                                17


                                   R
  Rear Axle, lubricant                                                31
  Run-in period                                                       14
  Rust and corrosion inhibitor                                        38


                                   S
  Seasonal services                                                   54
  Seat adjustment                                                     11
  Serial number                                                       15
  Service and adjustments                                             48
  Service policy                                                       3
  Shifting gears                                                      17
  Starter switch                                                       5
  Starting the engine                                                 16
  Steering data                                                       53
  Stop lights                                                         11


                                   T
  Tail lights                                                         10
  Technical reference data                                            51
  Tires, care and service                                             41
      changing                                                        35
  Transmission lubricant                                              27
  Tune-up                                                             48


                                   U
  Universal joints, lubrication                                       27
  Upholstery, care of                                                 45


                                   W
  Warming up engine                                                   16
  Warranties                                           Inside back cover
  Washer, windshield                                                  13
  Windshield wiper                                                    13
  Wiring diagram                                                      55
  Word to the owner                                                    2

                                                       Printed in U.S.A.
                                                                 115130M




                      STUDEBAKER FACTORY WARRANTY


We warrant each new motor vehicle sold by us to be free from defects in
material and workmanship under normal use and service, our obligation
under this warranty being limited to making good at Studebaker factories
any part or parts thereof, including all equipment or trade accessories
(except tires) supplied by Studebaker as standard or optional equipment,
which shall, within ninety (90) days after making delivery of such
vehicle to the original purchaser or before such vehicle has been driven
four thousand (4,000) miles, whichever event shall first occur, be
returned to us with transportation charges prepaid and which our
examination shall disclose to our satisfaction to have been thus
defective; this warranty being expressly in lieu of all other
warranties, express or implied, and of all other obligations or
liabilities on our part, and we neither assume nor authorize any other
person to assume for us any other liability in connection with the sale
or use of our motor vehicles.

This warranty shall not apply to any motor vehicle which shall have been
repaired or altered outside of Studebaker factories in any way so as, in
our judgment, to affect its stability or reliability, nor which has been
subject to misuse, negligence or accident, nor to any commercial motor
vehicle sold by us which shall have been operated at a speed exceeding
the factory rated speed, or loaded beyond the factory rated load
capacity.

                                              THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION
                                                  South Bend 27, Indiana

_We reserve the right to make changes in design or to make additions to
or improvements upon our products without incurring any obligations to
install the same on vehicles previously built._


                            BATTERY WARRANTY

The Willard Storage Battery Company provides a 90 day standard factory
warranty on the battery. They also provide an adjustment policy prorated
on a sliding scale based on the length of service of the battery. Your
Studebaker dealer will be pleased to handle details of battery warranty
service for you.




    KEEP THIS BOOKLET IN A CONVENIENT PLACE IN YOUR CAR. IT CONTAINS
IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE OPERATION AND CARE OF YOUR NEW CHAMPION.




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Your 1952 Champion Owner's Guide, by 
Studebaker Corporation

